1 Nephi 1
Chapter 1

1 Nephi 1:1
 1 I, Nephi, have great parents who taught me all they know.
I have been through a lot of hardship, but through
it all, the Lord has highly favored me; I now know much of God's
goodness and mysteries. This will be a record of my
proceedings.

1 Nephi 1:2
 2 I'll write it in my native tongue, which consists both of the
 learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians.

1 Nephi 1:3
 3 Everything I write here is true. I am writing it myself,
 according to what I know.

1 Nephi 1:4
 4 To give some background, my father, Lehi, has lived in
 Jerusalem his whole life. At the beginning of the first year of
the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, there were many prophets in
Jerusalem prophesying unto the people that if they did not
repent, the great city of Jerusalem would be destroyed.

1 Nephi 1:5
 5 My father, Lehi, also prayed unto the Lord with all his heart
in behalf of his people.

1 Nephi 1:6
 6 As he did so, a pillar of fire rested upon a rock in front of
him; and the many things he saw and heard made him quake and
tremble exceedingly.

1 Nephi 1:7
 7 After returning home, he was so overcome with
the Spirit and the things which he had seen that he needed to
lie down.

1 Nephi 1:8
 8 As he did so, he had a vision in which he saw the heavens
open, with God sitting upon his throne surrounded with numberless
concourses of angels all singing and praising Him.

1 Nephi 1:9
 9 He saw One, which shined more brightly than the sun at noon,
descend from heaven,

1 Nephi 1:10
 10 followed by twelve stars, which were also much brighter than
the ones we can see on a clear night in Jerusalem.

1 Nephi 1:11
 11 And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth;
and the first came and stood before my father, and gave unto him
a book, and bade him that he should read.

1 Nephi 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with the
Spirit of the Lord.

1 Nephi 1:13
 13 And he read, saying: Wo, wo, unto Jerusalem, for I have seen
thine abominations! Yea, and many things did my father read
concerning Jerusalem--that it should be destroyed, and the
inhabitants thereof; many should perish by the sword, and many
should be carried away captive into Babylon.

1 Nephi 1:14
 14 And it came to pass that when my father had read and seen
many great and marvelous things, he did exclaim many things unto
the Lord; such as: Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God
Almighty! Thy throne is high in the heavens, and thy power, and
goodness, and mercy are over all the inhabitants of the earth,
and, because thou art merciful, thou wilt not suffer those who
come unto thee that they shall perish!

1 Nephi 1:15
 15 And after this manner was the language of my father in the
praising of his God; for his soul did rejoice, and his whole
heart was filled, because of the things which he had seen, yea,
which the Lord had shown unto him.

1 Nephi 1:16
 16 And now I, Nephi, do not make a full account of the things
which my father hath written, for he hath written many things
which he saw in visions and in dreams; and he also hath written
many things which he prophesied and spake unto his children, of
which I shall not make a full account.

1 Nephi 1:17
 17 But I shall make an account of my proceedings in my days.
Behold, I make an abridgment of the record of my father, upon
plates which I have made with mine own hands; wherefore, after I
have abridged the record of my father then will I make an account
of mine own life.

1 Nephi 1:18
 18 Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after the Lord
had shown so many marvelous things unto my father, Lehi, yea,
concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, behold he went forth
among the people, and began to prophesy and to declare unto them
concerning the things which he had both seen and heard.

1 Nephi 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that the Jews did mock him because of the
things which he testified of them; for he truly testified of
their wickedness and their abominations; and he testified that
the things which he saw and heard, and also the things which he
read in the book, manifested plainly of the coming of the
Messiah, and also the redemption of the world.

1 Nephi 1:20
 20 And when the Jews heard these things they were angry with
him; yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they had cast
out, and stoned, and slain; and they also sought his life, that
they might take it away. But behold, I, Nephi, will show unto
you that the tender mercies of the Lord are over all those whom
he hath chosen, because of their faith, to make them mighty even
unto the power of deliverance.

