Mosiah 24
Chapter 24

Mosiah 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that Amulon did gain favor in the eyes of
the king of the Lamanites; therefore, the king of the Lamanites
granted unto him and his brethren that they should be appointed
teachers over his people, yea, even over the people who were in
the land of Shemlon, and in the land of Shilom, and in the land
of Amulon.

Mosiah 24:2
 2 For the Lamanites had taken possession of all these lands;
therefore, the king of the Lamanites had appointed kings over all
these lands.

Mosiah 24:3
 3 And now the name of the king of the Lamanites was Laman, being
called after the name of his father; and therefore he was called
king Laman. And he was king over a numerous people.

Mosiah 24:4
 4 And he appointed teachers of the brethren of Amulon in every
land which was possessed by his people; and thus the language of
Nephi began to be taught among all the people of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 24:5
 5 And they were a people friendly one with another; nevertheless
they knew not God; neither did the brethren of Amulon teach them
anything concerning the Lord their God, neither the law of Moses;
nor did they teach them the words of Abinadi;

Mosiah 24:6
 6 But they taught them that they should keep their record, and
that they might write one to another.

Mosiah 24:7
 7 And thus the Lamanites began to increase in riches, and began
to trade one with another and wax great, and began to be a
cunning and a wise people, as to the wisdom of the world, yea, a
very cunning people, delighting in all manner of wickedness and
plunder, except it were among their own brethren.

Mosiah 24:8
 8 And now it came to pass that Amulon began to exercise
authority over Alma and his brethren, and began to persecute him,
and cause that his children should persecute their children.

Mosiah 24:9
 9 For Amulon knew Alma, that he had been one of the king's
priests, and that it was he that believed the words of Abinadi
and was driven out before the king, and therefore he was wroth
with him; for he was subject to king Laman, yet he exercised
authority over them, and put tasks upon them, and put
task-masters over them.

Mosiah 24:10
 10 And it came to pass that so great were their afflictions that
they began to cry mightily to God.

Mosiah 24:11
 11 And Amulon commanded them that they should stop their cries;
and he put guards over them to watch them, that whosoever should
be found calling upon God should be put to death.

Mosiah 24:12
 12 And Alma and his people did not raise their voices to the
Lord their God, but did pour out their hearts to him; and he did
know the thoughts of their hearts.

Mosiah 24:13
 13 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came to them
in their afflictions, saying: Lift up your heads and be of good
comfort, for I know of the covenant which ye have made unto me;
and I will covenant with my people and deliver them out of
bondage.

Mosiah 24:14
 14 And I will also ease the burdens which are put upon your
shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs, even
while you are in bondage; and this will I do that ye may stand as
witnesses for me hereafter, and that ye may know of a surety that
I, the Lord God, do visit my people in their afflictions.

Mosiah 24:15
 15 And now it came to pass that the burdens which were laid upon
Alma and his brethren were made light; yea, the Lord did
strengthen them that they could bear up their burdens with ease,
and they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will
of the Lord.

Mosiah 24:16
 16 And it came to pass that so great was their faith and their
patience that the voice of the Lord came unto them again, saying:
Be of good comfort, for on the morrow I will deliver you out of
bondage.

Mosiah 24:17
 17 And he said unto Alma: Thou shalt go before this people, and
I will go with thee and deliver this people out of bondage.

Mosiah 24:18
 18 Now it came to pass that Alma and his people in the
night-time gathered their flocks together, and also of their
grain; yea, even all the night-time were they gathering the
flocks together.

Mosiah 24:19
 19 And in the morning the Lord caused a deep sleep to come upon
the Lamanites, yea, and all their task-masters were in a profound
sleep.

Mosiah 24:20
 20 And Alma and his people departed into the wilderness; and
when they had traveled all day they pitched their tents in a
valley, and they called the valley Alma, because he led their way
in the wilderness.

Mosiah 24:21
 21 Yea, and in the valley of Alma they poured out their thanks
to God because he had been merciful unto them, and eased their
burdens, and had delivered them out of bondage; for they were in
bondage, and none could deliver them except it were the Lord
their God.

Mosiah 24:22
 22 And they gave thanks to God, yea, all their men and all their
women and all their children that could speak lifted their voices
in the praises of their God.

Mosiah 24:23
 23 And now the Lord said unto Alma: Haste thee and get thou and
this people out of this land, for the Lamanites have awakened and
do pursue thee; therefore get thee out of this land, and I will
stop the Lamanites in this valley that they come no further in
pursuit of this people.

Mosiah 24:24
 24 And it came to pass that they departed out of the valley, and
took their journey into the wilderness.

Mosiah 24:25
 25 And after they had been in the wilderness twelve days they
arrived in the land of Zarahemla; and king Mosiah did also
receive them with joy.

