Alma 11
Chapter 11

Alma 11:1
 1 Now it was in the law of Mosiah that every man who was a judge
of the law, or those who were appointed to be judges, should
receive wages according to the time which they labored to judge
those who were brought before them to be judged.

Alma 11:2
 2 Now if a man owed another, and he would not pay that which he
did owe, he was complained of to the judge; and the judge
executed authority, and sent forth officers that the man should
be brought before him; and he judged the man according to the law
and the evidences which were brought against him, and thus the
man was compelled to pay that which he owed, or be stripped, or
be cast out from among the people as a thief and a robber.

Alma 11:3
 3 And the judge received for his wages according to his time--a
senine of gold for a day, or a senum of silver, which is equal to
a senine of gold; and this is according to the law which was
given.

Alma 11:4
 4 Now these are the names of the different pieces of their gold,
and of their silver, according to their value. And the names are
given by the Nephites, for they did not reckon after the manner
of the Jews who were at Jerusalem; neither did they measure after
the manner of the Jews; but they altered their reckoning and
their measure, according to the minds and the circumstances of
the people, in every generation, until the reign of the judges,
they having been established by king Mosiah.

Alma 11:5
 5 Now the reckoning is thus--a senine of gold, a seon of gold, a
shum of gold, and a limnah of gold.

Alma 11:6
 6 A senum of silver, an amnor of silver, an ezrom of silver, and
an onti of silver.

Alma 11:7
 7 A senum of silver was equal to a senine of gold, and either
for a measure of barley, and also for a measure of every kind of
grain.

Alma 11:8
 8 Now the amount of a seon of gold was twice the value of a
senine.

Alma 11:9
 9 And a shum of gold was twice the value of a seon.

Alma 11:10
 10 And a limnah of gold was the value of them all.

Alma 11:11
 11 And an amnor of silver was as great as two senums.

Alma 11:12
 12 And an ezrom of silver was as great as four senums.

Alma 11:13
 13 And an onti was as great as them all.

Alma 11:14
 14 Now this is the value of the lesser numbers of their
reckoning--

Alma 11:15
 15 A shiblon is half of a senum; therefore, a shiblon for half a
measure of barley.

Alma 11:16
 16 And a shiblum is a half of a shiblon.

Alma 11:17
 17 And a leah is the half of a shiblum.

Alma 11:18
 18 Now this is their number, according to their reckoning.

Alma 11:19
 19 Now an antion of gold is equal to three shiblons.

Alma 11:20
 20 Now, it was for the sole purpose to get gain, because they
received their wages according to their employ, therefore, they
did stir up the people to riotings, and all manner of
disturbances and wickedness, that they might have more employ,
that they might get money according to the suits which were
brought before them; therefore they did stir up the people
against Alma and Amulek.

Alma 11:21
 21 And this Zeezrom began to question Amulek, saying: Will ye
answer me a few questions which I shall ask you? Now Zeezrom was
a man who was expert in the devices of the devil, that he might
destroy that which was good; therefore, he said unto Amulek: Will
ye answer the questions which I shall put unto you?

Alma 11:22
 22 And Amulek said unto him: Yea, if it be according to the
Spirit of the Lord, which is in me; for I shall say nothing which
is contrary to the Spirit of the Lord. And Zeezrom said unto
him: Behold, here are six onties of silver, and all these will I
give thee if thou wilt deny the existence of a Supreme Being.

Alma 11:23
 23 Now Amulek said: O thou child of hell, why tempt ye me?
Knowest thou that the righteous yieldeth to no such temptations?

Alma 11:24
 24 Believest thou that there is no God? I say unto you, Nay,
thou knowest that there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more
than him.

Alma 11:25
 25 And now thou hast lied before God unto me. Thou saidst unto
me--Behold these six onties, which are of great worth, I will
give unto thee--when thou hadst it in thy heart to retain them
from me; and it was only thy desire that I should deny the true
and living God, that thou mightest have cause to destroy me. And
now behold, for this great evil thou shalt have thy reward.

Alma 11:26
 26 And Zeezrom said unto him: Thou sayest there is a true and
living God?

Alma 11:27
 27 And Amulek said: Yea, there is a true and living God.

Alma 11:28
 28 Now Zeezrom said: Is there more than one God?

Alma 11:29
 29 And he answered, No.

Alma 11:30
 30 Now Zeezrom said unto him again: How knowest thou these
things?

Alma 11:31
 31 And he said: An angel hath made them known unto me.

Alma 11:32
 32 And Zeezrom said again: Who is he that shall come? Is it the
Son of God?

Alma 11:33
 33 And he said unto him, Yea.

Alma 11:34
 34 And Zeezrom said again: Shall he save his people in their
sins? And Amulek answered and said unto him: I say unto you he
shall not, for it is impossible for him to deny his word.

Alma 11:35
 35 Now Zeezrom said unto the people: See that ye remember these
things; for he said there is but one God; yet he saith that the
Son of God shall come, but he shall not save his people--as
though he had authority to command God.

Alma 11:36
 36 Now Amulek saith again unto him: Behold thou hast lied, for
thou sayest that I spake as though I had authority to command God
because I said he shall not save his people in their sins.

Alma 11:37
 37 And I say unto you again that he cannot save them in their
sins; for I cannot deny his word, and he hath said that no
unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of heaven; therefore, how
can ye be saved, except ye inherit the kingdom of heaven?
Therefore, ye cannot be saved in your sins.

Alma 11:38
 38 Now Zeezrom saith again unto him: Is the Son of God the very
Eternal Father?

Alma 11:39
 39 And Amulek said unto him: Yea, he is the very Eternal Father
of heaven and of earth, and all things which in them are; he is
the beginning and the end, the first and the last;

Alma 11:40
 40 And he shall come into the world to redeem his people; and he
shall take upon him the transgressions of those who believe on
his name; and these are they that shall have eternal life, and
salvation cometh to none else.

Alma 11:41
 41 Therefore the wicked remain as though there had been no
redemption made, except it be the loosing of the bands of death;
for behold, the day cometh that all shall rise from the dead and
stand before God, and be judged according to their works.

Alma 11:42
 42 Now, there is a death which is called a temporal death; and
the death of Christ shall loose the bands of this temporal death,
that all shall be raised from this temporal death.

Alma 11:43
 43 The spirit and the body shall be reunited again in its
perfect form; both limb and joint shall be restored to its proper
frame, even as we now are at this time; and we shall be brought
to stand before God, knowing even as we know now, and have a
bright recollection of all our guilt.

Alma 11:44
 44 Now, this restoration shall come to all, both old and young,
both bond and free, both male and female, both the wicked and the
righteous; and even there shall not so much as a hair of their
heads be lost; but every thing shall be restored to its perfect
frame, as it is now, or in the body, and shall be brought and be
arraigned before the bar of Christ the Son, and God the Father,
and the Holy Spirit, which is one Eternal God, to be judged
according to their works, whether they be good or whether they be
evil.

Alma 11:45
 45 Now, behold, I have spoken unto you concerning the death of
the mortal body, and also concerning the resurrection of the
mortal body. I say unto you that this mortal body is raised to
an immortal body, that is from death, even from the first death
unto life, that they can die no more; their spirits uniting with
their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole becoming
spiritual and immortal, that they can no more see corruption.

Alma 11:46
 46 Now, when Amulek had finished these words the people began
again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom began to tremble. And
thus ended the words of Amulek, or this is all that I have
written.

