Alma 57
Chapter 57

Alma 57:1
 1 And now it came to pass that I received an epistle from
Ammoron, the king, stating that if I would deliver up those
prisoners of war whom we had taken that he would deliver up the
city of Antiparah unto us.

Alma 57:2
 2 But I sent an epistle unto the king, that we were sure our
forces were sufficient to take the city of Antiparah by our
force; and by delivering up the prisoners for that city we should
suppose ourselves unwise, and that we would only deliver up our
prisoners on exchange.

Alma 57:3
 3 And Ammoron refused mine epistle, for he would not exchange
prisoners; therefore we began to make preparations to go against
the city of Antiparah.

Alma 57:4
 4 But the people of Antiparah did leave the city, and fled to
their other cities, which they had possession of, to fortify
them; and thus the city of Antiparah fell into our hands.

Alma 57:5
 5 And thus ended the twenty and eighth year of the reign of the
judges.

Alma 57:6
 6 And it came to pass that in the commencement of the twenty and
ninth year, we received a supply of provisions, and also an
addition to our army, from the land of Zarahemla, and from the
land round about, to the number of six thousand men, besides
sixty of the sons of the Ammonites who had come to join their
brethren, my little band of two thousand. And now behold, we
were strong, yea, and we had also plenty of provisions brought
unto us.

Alma 57:7
 7 And it came to pass that it was our desire to wage a battle
with the army which was placed to protect the city Cumeni.

Alma 57:8
 8 And now behold, I will show unto you that we soon accomplished
our desire; yea, with our strong force, or with a part of our
strong force, we did surround, by night, the city Cumeni, a
little before they were to receive a supply of provisions.

Alma 57:9
 9 And it came to pass that we did camp round about the city for
many nights; but we did sleep upon our swords, and keep guards,
that the Lamanites could not come upon us by night and slay us,
which they attempted many times; but as many times as they
attempted this their blood was spilt.

Alma 57:10
 10 At length their provisions did arrive, and they were about to
enter the city by night. And we, instead of being Lamanites,
were Nephites; therefore, we did take them and their provisions.

Alma 57:11
 11 And notwithstanding the Lamanites being cut off from their
support after this manner, they were still determined to maintain
the city; therefore it became expedient that we should take those
provisions and send them to Judea, and our prisoners to the land
of Zarahemla.

Alma 57:12
 12 And it came to pass that not many days had passed away before
the Lamanites began to lose all hopes of succor; therefore they
yielded up the city unto our hands; and thus we had accomplished
our designs in obtaining the city Cumeni.

Alma 57:13
 13 But it came to pass that our prisoners were so numerous that,
notwithstanding the enormity of our numbers, we were obliged to
employ all our force to keep them, or to put them to death.

Alma 57:14
 14 For behold, they would break out in great numbers, and would
fight with stones, and with clubs, or whatsoever thing they could
get into their hands, insomuch that we did slay upwards of two
thousand of them after they had surrendered themselves prisoners
of war.

Alma 57:15
 15 Therefore it became expedient for us, that we should put an
end to their lives, or guard them, sword in hand, down to the
land of Zarahemla; and also our provisions were not any more than
sufficient for our own people, notwithstanding that which we had
taken from the Lamanites.

Alma 57:16
 16 And now, in those critical circumstances, it became a very
serious matter to determine concerning these prisoners of war;
nevertheless, we did resolve to send them down to the land of
Zarahemla; therefore we selected a part of our men, and gave them
charge over our prisoners to go down to the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 57:17
 17 But it came to pass that on the morrow they did return. And
now behold, we did not inquire of them concerning the prisoners;
for behold, the Lamanites were upon us, and they returned in
season to save us from falling into their hands. For behold,
Ammoron had sent to their support a new supply of provisions and
also a numerous army of men.

Alma 57:18
 18 And it came to pass that those men whom we sent with the
prisoners did arrive in season to check them, as they were about
to overpower us.

Alma 57:19
 19 But behold, my little band of two thousand and sixty fought
most desperately; yea, they were firm before the Lamanites, and
did administer death unto all those who opposed them.

Alma 57:20
 20 And as the remainder of our army were about to give way
before the Lamanites, behold, those two thousand and sixty were
firm and undaunted.

Alma 57:21
 21 Yea, and they did obey and observe to perform every word of
command with exactness; yea, and even according to their faith it
was done unto them; and I did remember the words which they said
unto me that their mothers had taught them.

Alma 57:22
 22 And now behold, it was these my sons, and those men who had
been selected to convey the prisoners, to whom we owe this great
victory; for it was they who did beat the Lamanites; therefore
they were driven back to the city of Manti.

Alma 57:23
 23 And we retained our city Cumeni, and were not all destroyed
by the sword; nevertheless, we had suffered great loss.

Alma 57:24
 24 And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had fled, I
immediately gave orders that my men who had been wounded should
be taken from among the dead, and caused that their wounds should
be dressed.

Alma 57:25
 25 And it came to pass that there were two hundred, out of my
two thousand and sixty, who had fainted because of the loss of
blood; nevertheless, according to the goodness of God, and to our
great astonishment, and also the joy of our whole army, there was
not one soul of them who did perish; yea, and neither was there
one soul among them who had not received many wounds.

Alma 57:26
 26 And now, their preservation was astonishing to our whole
army, yea, that they should be spared while there was a thousand
of our brethren who were slain. And we do justly ascribe it to
the miraculous power of God, because of their exceeding faith in
that which they had been taught to believe--that there was a just
God, and whosoever did not doubt, that they should be preserved
by his marvelous power.

Alma 57:27
 27 Now this was the faith of these of whom I have spoken; they
are young, and their minds are firm, and they do put their trust
in God continually.

Alma 57:28
 28 And now it came to pass that after we had thus taken care of
our wounded men, and had buried our dead and also the dead of the
Lamanites, who were many, behold, we did inquire of Gid
concerning the prisoners whom they had started to go down to the
land of Zarahemla with.

Alma 57:29
 29 Now Gid was the chief captain over the band who was appointed
to guard them down to the land.

Alma 57:30
 30 And now, these are the words which Gid said unto me: Behold,
we did start to go down to the land of Zarahemla with our
prisoners. And it came to pass that we did meet the spies of our
armies, who had been sent out to watch the camp of the Lamanites.

Alma 57:31
 31 And they cried unto us, saying--Behold, the armies of the
Lamanites are marching towards the city of Cumeni; and behold,
they will fall upon them, yea, and will destroy our people.

Alma 57:32
 32 And it came to pass that our prisoners did hear their cries,
which caused them to take courage; and they did rise up in
rebellion against us.

Alma 57:33
 33 And it came to pass because of their rebellion we did cause
that our swords should come upon them. And it came to pass that
they did in a body run upon our swords, in the which, the greater
number of them were slain; and the remainder of them broke
through and fled from us.

Alma 57:34
 34 And behold, when they had fled and we could not overtake
them, we took our march with speed towards the city Cumeni; and
behold, we did arrive in time that we might assist our brethren
in preserving the city.

Alma 57:35
 35 And behold, we are again delivered out of the hands of our
enemies. And blessed is the name of our God; for behold, it is
he that has delivered us; yea, that has done this great thing for
us.

Alma 57:36
 36 Now it came to pass that when I, Helaman, had heard these
words of Gid, I was filled with exceeding joy because of the
goodness of God in preserving us, that we might not all perish;
yea, and I trust that the souls of them who have been slain have
entered into the rest of their God.

