Helaman 1
Chapter 1

Helaman 1:1
 1 And now behold, it came to pass in the commencement of the
fortieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi, there began to be a serious difficulty among the people of
the Nephites.

Helaman 1:2
 2 For behold, Pahoran had died, and gone the way of all the
earth; therefore there began to be a serious contention
concerning who should have the judgment-seat among the brethren,
who were the sons of Pahoran.

Helaman 1:3
 3 Now these are their names who did contend for the
judgment-seat, who did also cause the people to contend: Pahoran,
Paanchi, and Pacumeni.

Helaman 1:4
 4 Now these are not all the sons of Pahoran, (for he had many)
but these are they who did contend for the judgment-seat;
therefore, they did cause three divisions among the people.

Helaman 1:5
 5 Nevertheless, it came to pass that Pahoran was appointed by
the voice of the people to be chief judge and a governor over the
people of Nephi.

Helaman 1:6
 6 And it came to pass that Pacumeni, when he saw that he could
not obtain the judgment-seat, he did unite with the voice of the
people.

Helaman 1:7
 7 But behold, Paanchi, and that part of the people that were
desirous that he should be their governor, was exceedingly wroth;
therefore, he was about to flatter away those people to rise up
in rebellion against their brethren.

Helaman 1:8
 8 And it came to pass as he was about to do this, behold, he was
taken, and was tried according to the voice of the people, and
condemned unto death; for he had raised up in rebellion and
sought to destroy the liberty of the people.

Helaman 1:9
 9 Now when those people who were desirous that he should be
their governor saw that he was condemned unto death, therefore
they were angry, and behold, they sent forth one Kishkumen, even
to the judgment-seat of Pahoran, and murdered Pahoran as he sat
upon the judgment-seat.

Helaman 1:10
 10 And he was pursued by the servants of Pahoran; but behold, so
speedy was the flight of Kishkumen that no man could overtake
him.

Helaman 1:11
 11 And he went unto those that sent him, and they all entered
into a covenant, yea, swearing by their everlasting Maker, that
they would tell no man that Kishkumen had murdered Pahoran.

Helaman 1:12
 12 Therefore, Kishkumen was not known among the people of Nephi,
for he was in disguise at the time that he murdered Pahoran. And
Kishkumen and his band, who had covenanted with him, did mingle
themselves among the people, in a manner that they all could not
be found; but as many as were found were condemned unto death.

Helaman 1:13
 13 And now behold, Pacumeni was appointed, according to the
voice of the people, to be a chief judge and a governor over the
people, to reign in the stead of his brother Pahoran; and it was
according to his right. And all this was done in the fortieth
year of the reign of the judges; and it had an end.

Helaman 1:14
 14 And it came to pass in the forty and first year of the reign
of the judges, that the Lamanites had gathered together an
innumerable army of men, and armed them with swords, and with
cimeters and with bows, and with arrows, and with head-plates,
and with breastplates, and with all manner of shields of every
kind.

Helaman 1:15
 15 And they came down again that they might pitch battle against
the Nephites. And they were led by a man whose name was
Coriantumr; and he was a descendant of Zarahemla; and he was a
dissenter from among the Nephites; and he was a large and a
mighty man.

Helaman 1:16
 16 Therefore, the king of the Lamanites, whose name was
Tubaloth, who was the son of Ammoron, supposing that Coriantumr,
being a mighty man, could stand against the Nephites, with his
strength and also with his great wisdom, insomuch that by sending
him forth he should gain power over the Nephites--

Helaman 1:17
 17 Therefore he did stir them up to anger, and he did gather
together his armies, and he did appoint Coriantumr to be their
leader, and did cause that they should march down to the land of
Zarahemla to battle against the Nephites.

Helaman 1:18
 18 And it came to pass that because of so much contention and so
much difficulty in the government, that they had not kept
sufficient guards in the land of Zarahemla; for they had supposed
that the Lamanites durst not come into the heart of their lands
to attack that great city Zarahemla.

Helaman 1:19
 19 But it came to pass that Coriantumr did march forth at the
head of his numerous host, and came upon the inhabitants of the
city, and their march was with such exceedingly great speed that
there was no time for the Nephites to gather together their
armies.

Helaman 1:20
 20 Therefore Coriantumr did cut down the watch by the entrance
of the city, and did march forth with his whole army into the
city, and they did slay every one who did oppose them, insomuch
that they did take possession of the whole city.

Helaman 1:21
 21 And it came to pass that Pacumeni, who was the chief judge,
did flee before Coriantumr, even to the walls of the city. And
it came to pass that Coriantumr did smite him against the wall,
insomuch that he died. And thus ended the days of Pacumeni.

Helaman 1:22
 22 And now when Coriantumr saw that he was in possession of the
city of Zarahemla, and saw that the Nephites had fled before
them, and were slain, and were taken, and were cast into prison,
and that he had obtained the possession of the strongest hold in
all the land, his heart took courage insomuch that he was about
to go forth against all the land.

Helaman 1:23
 23 And now he did not tarry in the land of Zarahemla, but he did
march forth with a large army, even towards the city of
Bountiful; for it was his determination to go forth and cut his
way through with the sword, that he might obtain the north parts
of the land.

Helaman 1:24
 24 And, supposing that their greatest strength was in the center
of the land, therefore he did march forth, giving them no time to
assemble themselves together save it were in small bodies; and in
this manner they did fall upon them and cut them down to the
earth.

Helaman 1:25
 25 But behold, this march of Coriantumr through the center of
the land gave Moronihah great advantage over them,
notwithstanding the greatness of the number of the Nephites who
were slain.

Helaman 1:26
 26 For behold, Moronihah had supposed that the Lamanites durst
not come into the center of the land, but that they would attack
the cities round about in the borders as they had hitherto done;
therefore Moronihah had caused that their strong armies should
maintain those parts round about by the borders.

Helaman 1:27
 27 But behold, the Lamanites were not frightened according to
his desire, but they had come into the center of the land, and
had taken the capital city which was the city of Zarahemla, and
were marching through the most capital parts of the land, slaying
the people with a great slaughter, both men, women, and children,
taking possession of many cities and of many strongholds.

Helaman 1:28
 28 But when Moronihah had discovered this, he immediately sent
forth Lehi with an army round about to head them before they
should come to the land Bountiful.

Helaman 1:29
 29 And thus he did; and he did head them before they came to the
land Bountiful, and gave unto them battle, insomuch that they
began to retreat back towards the land of Zarahemla.

Helaman 1:30
 30 And it came to pass that Moronihah did head them in their
retreat, and did give unto them battle, insomuch that it became
an exceedingly bloody battle; yea, many were slain, and among the
number who were slain Coriantumr was also found.

Helaman 1:31
 31 And now, behold, the Lamanites could not retreat either way,
neither on the north, nor on the south, nor on the east, nor on
the west, for they were surrounded on every hand by the Nephites.

Helaman 1:32
 32 And thus had Coriantumr plunged the Lamanites into the midst
of the Nephites, insomuch that they were in the power of the
Nephites, and he himself was slain, and the Lamanites did yield
themselves into the hands of the Nephites.

Helaman 1:33
 33 And it came to pass that Moronihah took possession of the
city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the Lamanites who had
been taken prisoners should depart out of the land in peace.

Helaman 1:34
 34 And thus ended the forty and first year of the reign of the
judges.

