3 Nephi 26
Chapter 26

3 Nephi 26:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had told these things
he expounded them unto the multitude; and he did expound all
things unto them, both great and small.

3 Nephi 26:2
 2 And he saith: These scriptures, which ye had not with you, the
Father commanded that I should give unto you; for it was wisdom
in him that they should be given unto future generations.

3 Nephi 26:3
 3 And he did expound all things, even from the beginning until
the time that he should come in his glory--yea, even all things
which should come upon the face of the earth, even until the
elements should melt with fervent heat, and the earth should be
wrapt together as a scroll, and the heavens and the earth should
pass away;

3 Nephi 26:4
 4 And even unto the great and last day, when all people, and all
kindreds, and all nations and tongues shall stand before God, to
be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be
evil--

3 Nephi 26:5
 5 If they be good, to the resurrection of everlasting life; and
if they be evil, to the resurrection of damnation; being on a
parallel, the one on the one hand and the other on the other
hand, according to the mercy, and the justice, and the holiness
which is in Christ, who was before the world began.

3 Nephi 26:6
 6 And now there cannot be written in this book even a hundredth
part of the things which Jesus did truly teach unto the people;

3 Nephi 26:7
 7 But behold the plates of Nephi do contain the more part of the
things which he taught the people.

3 Nephi 26:8
 8 And these things have I written, which are a lesser part of
the things which he taught the people; and I have written them to
the intent that they may be brought again unto this people, from
the Gentiles, according to the words which Jesus hath spoken.

3 Nephi 26:9
 9 And when they shall have received this, which is expedient
that they should have first, to try their faith, and if it shall
so be that they shall believe these things then shall the greater
things be made manifest unto them.

3 Nephi 26:10
 10 And if it so be that they will not believe these things, then
shall the greater things be withheld from them, unto their
condemnation.

3 Nephi 26:11
 11 Behold, I was about to write them, all which were engraven
upon the plates of Nephi, but the Lord forbade it, saying: I will
try the faith of my people.

3 Nephi 26:12
 12 Therefore I, Mormon, do write the things which have been
commanded me of the Lord. And now I, Mormon, make an end of my
sayings, and proceed to write the things which have been
commanded me.

3 Nephi 26:13
 13 Therefore, I would that ye should behold that the Lord truly
did teach the people, for the space of three days; and after that
he did show himself unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and
bless it, and give it unto them.

3 Nephi 26:14
 14 And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto the
children of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he did
loose their tongues, and they did speak unto their fathers great
and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the
people; and he loosed their tongues that they could utter.

3 Nephi 26:15
 15 And it came to pass that after he had ascended into
heaven--the second time that he showed himself unto them, and had
gone unto the Father, after having healed all their sick, and
their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the
ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among
them, and raised a man from the dead, and had shown forth his
power unto them, and had ascended unto the Father--

3 Nephi 26:16
 16 Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude
gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these
children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter
marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were
forbidden that there should not any man write them.

3 Nephi 26:17
 17 And it came to pass that the disciples whom Jesus had chosen
began from that time forth to baptize and to teach as many as did
come unto them; and as many as were baptized in the name of Jesus
were filled with the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 26:18
 18 And many of them saw and heard unspeakable things, which are
not lawful to be written.

3 Nephi 26:19
 19 And they taught, and did minister one to another; and they
had all things common among them, every man dealing justly, one
with another.

3 Nephi 26:20
 20 And it came to pass that they did do all things even as Jesus
had commanded them.

3 Nephi 26:21
 21 And they who were baptized in the name of Jesus were called
the church of Christ.

