1 Nephi 18
Chapter 18

1 Nephi 18:1
 1 And it came to pass that they did worship the Lord, and did go
forth with me; and we did work timbers of curious workmanship.
And the Lord did show me from time to time after what manner I
should work the timbers of the ship.

1 Nephi 18:2
 2 Now I, Nephi, did not work the timbers after the manner which
was learned by men, neither did I build the ship after the manner
of men; but I did build it after the manner which the Lord had
shown unto me; wherefore, it was not after the manner of men.

1 Nephi 18:3
 3 And I, Nephi, did go into the mount oft, and I did pray oft
unto the Lord; wherefore the Lord showed unto me great things.

1 Nephi 18:4
 4 And it came to pass that after I had finished the ship,
according to the word of the Lord, my brethren beheld that it was
good, and that the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine;
wherefore, they did humble themselves again before the Lord.

1 Nephi 18:5
 5 And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my
father, that we should arise and go down into the ship.

1 Nephi 18:6
 6 And it came to pass that on the morrow, after we had prepared
all things, much fruits and meat from the wilderness, and honey
in abundance, and provisions according to that which the Lord had
commanded us, we did go down into the ship, with all our loading
and our seeds, and whatsoever thing we had brought with us, every
one according to his age; wherefore, we did all go down into the
ship, with our wives and our children.

1 Nephi 18:7
 7 And now, my father had begat two sons in the wilderness; the
elder was called Jacob and the younger Joseph.

1 Nephi 18:8
 8 And it came to pass after we had all gone down into the ship,
and had taken with us our provisions and things which had been
commanded us, we did put forth into the sea and were driven forth
before the wind towards the promised land.

1 Nephi 18:9
 9 And after we had been driven forth before the wind for the
space of many days, behold, my brethren and the sons of Ishmael
and also their wives began to make themselves merry, insomuch
that they began to dance, and to sing, and to speak with much
rudeness, yea, even that they did forget by what power they had
been brought thither; yea, they were lifted up unto exceeding
rudeness.

1 Nephi 18:10
 10 And I, Nephi, began to fear exceedingly lest the Lord should
be angry with us, and smite us because of our iniquity, that we
should be swallowed up in the depths of the sea; wherefore, I,
Nephi, began to speak to them with much soberness; but behold
they were angry with me, saying: We will not that our younger
brother shall be a ruler over us.

1 Nephi 18:11
 11 And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel did take me and
bind me with cords, and they did treat me with much harshness;
nevertheless, the Lord did suffer it that he might show forth his
power, unto the fulfilling of his word which he had spoken
concerning the wicked.

1 Nephi 18:12
 12 And it came to pass that after they had bound me insomuch
that I could not move, the compass, which had been prepared of
the Lord, did cease to work.

1 Nephi 18:13
 13 Wherefore, they knew not whither they should steer the ship,
insomuch that there arose a great storm, yea, a great and
terrible tempest, and we were driven back upon the waters for the
space of three days; and they began to be frightened exceedingly
lest they should be drowned in the sea; nevertheless they did not
loose me.

1 Nephi 18:14
 14 And on the fourth day, which we had been driven back, the
tempest began to be exceedingly sore.

1 Nephi 18:15
 15 And it came to pass that we were about to be swallowed up in
the depths of the sea. And after we had been driven back upon
the waters for the space of four days, my brethren began to see
that the judgments of God were upon them, and that they must
perish save that they should repent of their iniquities;
wherefore, they came unto me, and loosed the bands which were
upon my wrist, and behold they had swollen exceedingly; and also
mine ankles were much swollen, and great was the soreness
thereof.

1 Nephi 18:16
 16 Nevertheless, I did look unto my God, and I did praise him
all the day long; and I did not murmur against the Lord because
of mine afflictions.

1 Nephi 18:17
 17 Now my father, Lehi, had said many things unto them, and also
unto the sons of Ishmael; but, behold, they did breathe out much
threatenings against anyone that should speak for me; and my
parents being stricken in years, and having suffered much grief
because of their children, they were brought down, yea, even upon
their sick-beds.

1 Nephi 18:18
 18 Because of their grief and much sorrow, and the iniquity of
my brethren, they were brought near even to be carried out of
this time to meet their God; yea, their grey hairs were about to
be brought down to lie low in the dust; yea, even they were near
to be cast with sorrow into a watery grave.

1 Nephi 18:19
 19 And Jacob and Joseph also, being young, having need of much
nourishment, were grieved because of the afflictions of their
mother; and also my wife with her tears and prayers, and also my
children, did not soften the hearts of my brethren that they
would loose me.

1 Nephi 18:20
 20 And there was nothing save it were the power of God, which
threatened them with destruction, could soften their hearts;
wherefore, when they saw that they were about to be swallowed up
in the depths of the sea they repented of the thing which they
had done, insomuch that they loosed me.

1 Nephi 18:21
 21 And it came to pass after they had loosed me, behold, I took
the compass, and it did work whither I desired it. And it came
to pass that I prayed unto the Lord; and after I had prayed the
winds did cease, and the storm did cease, and there was a great
calm.

1 Nephi 18:22
 22 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did guide the ship, that
we sailed again towards the promised land.

1 Nephi 18:23
 23 And it came to pass that after we had sailed for the space of
many days we did arrive at the promised land; and we went forth
upon the land, and did pitch our tents; and we did call it the
promised land.

1 Nephi 18:24
 24 And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and
we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds into the
earth, which we had brought from the land of Jerusalem. And it
came to pass that they did grow exceedingly; wherefore, we were
blessed in abundance.

1 Nephi 18:25
 25 And it came to pass that we did find upon the land of
promise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were
beasts in the forests of every kind, both the cow and the ox, and
the ass and the horse, and the goat and the wild goat, and all
manner of wild animals, which were for the use of men. And we
did find all manner of ore, both of gold, and of silver, and of
copper.

