1 Nephi 21
Chapter 21

1 Nephi 21:1
 1 And again: Hearken, O ye house of Israel, all ye that are
broken off and are driven out because of the wickedness of the
pastors of my people; yea, all ye that are broken off, that are
scattered abroad, who are of my people, O house of Israel.
Listen, O isles, unto me, and hearken ye people from far; the
Lord hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother
hath he made mention of my name.

1 Nephi 21:2
 2 And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of
his hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his
quiver hath he hid me;

1 Nephi 21:3
 3 And said unto me: Thou art my servant, O Israel, in whom I
will be glorified.

1 Nephi 21:4
 4 Then I said, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength
for naught and in vain; surely my judgment is with the Lord, and
my work with my God.

1 Nephi 21:5
 5 And now, saith the Lord--that formed me from the womb that I
should be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him--though Israel
be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the Lord,
and my God shall be my strength.

1 Nephi 21:6
 6 And he said: It is a light thing that thou shouldst be my
servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the
preserved of Israel. I will also give thee for a light to the
Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the ends of the
earth.

1 Nephi 21:7
 7 Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, to
him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation abhorreth, to
servant of rulers: Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall
worship, because of the Lord that is faithful.

1 Nephi 21:8
 8 Thus saith the Lord: In an acceptable time have I heard thee,
O isles of the sea, and in a day of salvation have I helped thee;
and I will preserve thee, and give thee my servant for a covenant
of the people, to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the
desolate heritages;

1 Nephi 21:9
 9 That thou mayest say to the prisoners: Go forth; to them that
sit in darkness: Show yourselves. They shall feed in the ways,
and their pastures shall be in all high places.

1 Nephi 21:10
 10 They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor
the sun smite them; for he that hath mercy on them shall lead
them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them.

1 Nephi 21:11
 11 And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall
be exalted.

1 Nephi 21:12
 12 And then, O house of Israel, behold, these shall come from
far; and lo, these from the north and from the west; and these
from the land of Sinim.

1 Nephi 21:13
 13 Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; for the feet of
those who are in the east shall be established; and break forth
into singing, O mountains; for they shall be smitten no more; for
the Lord hath comforted his people, and will have mercy upon his
afflicted.

1 Nephi 21:14
 14 But, behold, Zion hath said: The Lord hath forsaken me, and
my Lord hath forgotten me--but he will show that he hath not.

1 Nephi 21:15
 15 For can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not
have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget,
yet will I not forget thee, O house of Israel.

1 Nephi 21:16
 16 Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy
walls are continually before me.

1 Nephi 21:17
 17 Thy children shall make haste against thy destroyers; and
they that made thee waste shall go forth of thee.

1 Nephi 21:18
 18 Lift up thine eyes round about and behold; all these gather
themselves together, and they shall come to thee. And as I live,
saith the Lord, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them all, as
with an ornament, and bind them on even as a bride.

1 Nephi 21:19
 19 For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thy
destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the
inhabitants; and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.

1 Nephi 21:20
 20 The children whom thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the
first, shall again in thine ears say: The place is too strait for
me; give place to me that I may dwell.

1 Nephi 21:21
 21 Then shalt thou say in thine heart: Who hath begotten me
these, seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a
captive, and removing to and fro? And who hath brought up these?

Behold, I was left alone; these, where have they been?

1 Nephi 21:22
 22 Thus saith the Lord God: Behold, I will lift up mine hand to
the Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people; and they
shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be
carried upon their shoulders.

1 Nephi 21:23
 23 And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy
nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their face
towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou
shalt know that I am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that
wait for me.

1 Nephi 21:24
 24 For shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful
captives delivered?

1 Nephi 21:25
 25 But thus saith the Lord, even the captives of the mighty
shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be
delivered; for I will contend with him that contendeth with thee,
and I will save thy children.

1 Nephi 21:26
 26 And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh;
they shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine;
and all flesh shall know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy
Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.

