Jacob 6
Chapter 6

Jacob 6:1
 1 And now, behold, my brethren, as I said unto you that I would
prophesy, behold, this is my prophecy--that the things which this
prophet Zenos spake, concerning the house of Israel, in the which
he likened them unto a tame olive-tree, must surely come to pass.

Jacob 6:2
 2 And the day that he shall set his hand again the second time
to recover his people, is the day, yea, even the last time, that
the servants of the Lord shall go forth in his power, to nourish
and prune his vineyard; and after that the end soon cometh.

Jacob 6:3
 3 And how blessed are they who have labored diligently in his
vineyard; and how cursed are they who shall be cast out into
their own place! And the world shall be burned with fire.

Jacob 6:4
 4 And how merciful is our God unto us, for he remembereth the
house of Israel, both roots and branches; and he stretches forth
his hands unto them all the day long; and they are a stiffnecked
and a gainsaying people; but as many as will not harden their
hearts shall be saved in the kingdom of God.

Jacob 6:5
 5 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, I beseech of you in words of
soberness that ye would repent, and come with full purpose of
heart, and cleave unto God as he cleaveth unto you. And while
his arm of mercy is extended towards you in the light of the day,
harden not your hearts.

Jacob 6:6
 6 Yea, today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts;
for why will ye die?

Jacob 6:7
 7 For behold, after ye have been nourished by the good word of
God all the day long, will ye bring forth evil fruit, that ye
must be hewn down and cast into the fire?

Jacob 6:8
 8 Behold, will ye reject these words? Will ye reject the words
of the prophets; and will ye reject all the words which have been
spoken concerning Christ, after so many have spoken concerning
him; and deny the good word of Christ, and the power of God, and
the gift of the Holy Ghost, and quench the Holy Spirit, and make
a mock of the great plan of redemption, which hath been laid for
you?

Jacob 6:9
 9 Know ye not that if ye will do these things, that the power of
the redemption and the resurrection, which is in Christ, will
bring you to stand with shame and awful guilt before the bar of
God?

Jacob 6:10
 10 And according to the power of justice, for justice cannot be
denied, ye must go away into that lake of fire and brimstone,
whose flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up
forever and ever, which lake of fire and brimstone is endless
torment.

Jacob 6:11
 11 O then, my beloved brethren, repent ye, and enter in at the
strait gate, and continue in the way which is narrow, until ye
shall obtain eternal life.

Jacob 6:12
 12 O be wise; what can I say more?

Jacob 6:13
 13 Finally, I bid you farewell, until I shall meet you before
the pleasing bar of God, which bar striketh the wicked with awful
dread and fear. Amen.

