Mosiah 28
Chapter 28

Mosiah 28:1
 1 Now it came to pass that after the sons of Mosiah had done all
these things, they took a small number with them and returned to
their father, the king, and desired of him that he would grant
unto them that they might, with these whom they had selected, go
up to the land of Nephi that they might preach the things which
they had heard, and that they might impart the word of God to
their brethren, the Lamanites--

Mosiah 28:2
 2 That perhaps they might bring them to the knowledge of the
Lord their God, and convince them of the iniquity of their
fathers; and that perhaps they might cure them of their hatred
towards the Nephites, that they might also be brought to rejoice
in the Lord their God, that they might become friendly to one
another, and that there should be no more contentions in all the
land which the Lord their God had given them.

Mosiah 28:3
 3 Now they were desirous that salvation should be declared to
every creature, for they could not bear that any human soul
should perish; yea, even the very thoughts that any soul should
endure endless torment did cause them to quake and tremble.

Mosiah 28:4
 4 And thus did the Spirit of the Lord work upon them, for they
were the very vilest of sinners. And the Lord saw fit in his
infinite mercy to spare them; nevertheless they suffered much
anguish of soul because of their iniquities, suffering much and
fearing that they should be cast off forever.

Mosiah 28:5
 5 And it came to pass that they did plead with their father many
days that they might go up to the land of Nephi.

Mosiah 28:6
 6 And king Mosiah went and inquired of the Lord if he should let
his sons go up among the Lamanites to preach the word.

Mosiah 28:7
 7 And the Lord said unto Mosiah: Let them go up, for many shall
believe on their words, and they shall have eternal life; and I
will deliver thy sons out of the hands of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 28:8
 8 And it came to pass that Mosiah granted that they might go and
do according to their request.

Mosiah 28:9
 9 And they took their journey into the wilderness to go up to
preach the word among the Lamanites; and I shall give an account
of their proceedings hereafter.

Mosiah 28:10
 10 Now king Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for
there was not any of his sons who would accept of the kingdom.

Mosiah 28:11
 11 Therefore he took the records which were engraven on the
plates of brass, and also the plates of Nephi, and all the things
which he had kept and preserved according to the commandments of
God, after having translated and caused to be written the records
which were on the plates of gold which had been found by the
people of Limhi, which were delivered to him by the hand of
Limhi;

Mosiah 28:12
 12 And this he did because of the great anxiety of his people;
for they were desirous beyond measure to know concerning those
people who had been destroyed.

Mosiah 28:13
 13 And now he translated them by the means of those two stones
which were fastened into the two rims of a bow.

Mosiah 28:14
 14 Now these things were prepared from the beginning, and were
handed down from generation to generation, for the purpose of
interpreting languages;

Mosiah 28:15
 15 And they have been kept and preserved by the hand of the
Lord, that he should discover to every creature who should
possess the land the iniquities and abominations of his people;

Mosiah 28:16
 16 And whosoever has these things is called seer, after the
manner of old times.

Mosiah 28:17
 17 Now after Mosiah had finished translating these records,
behold, it gave an account of the people who were destroyed, from
the time that they were destroyed back to the building of the
great tower, at the time the Lord confounded the language of the
people and they were scattered abroad upon the face of all the
earth, yea, and even from that time back until the creation of
Adam.

Mosiah 28:18
 18 Now this account did cause the people of Mosiah to mourn
exceedingly, yea, they were filled with sorrow; nevertheless it
gave them much knowledge, in the which they did rejoice.

Mosiah 28:19
 19 And this account shall be written hereafter; for behold, it
is expedient that all people should know the things which are
written in this account.

Mosiah 28:20
 20 And now, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had done
these things, he took the plates of brass, and all the things
which he had kept, and conferred them upon Alma, who was the son
of Alma; yea, all the records, and also the interpreters, and
conferred them upon him, and commanded him that he should keep
and preserve them, and also keep a record of the people, handing
them down from one generation to another, even as they had been
handed down from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem.

