Mosiah 20
Chapter 20

Mosiah 20:1
 1 Now there was a place in Shemlon where the daughters of the
Lamanites did gather themselves together to sing, and to dance,
and to make themselves merry.

Mosiah 20:2
 2 And it came to pass that there was one day a small number of
them gathered together to sing and to dance.

Mosiah 20:3
 3 And now the priests of king Noah, being ashamed to return to
the city of Nephi, yea, and also fearing that the people would
slay them, therefore they durst not return to their wives and
their children.

Mosiah 20:4
 4 And having tarried in the wilderness, and having discovered
the daughters of the Lamanites, they laid and watched them;

Mosiah 20:5
 5 And when there were but few of them gathered together to
dance, they came forth out of their secret places and took them
and carried them into the wilderness; yea, twenty and four of the
daughters of the Lamanites they carried into the wilderness.

Mosiah 20:6
 6 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites found that their
daughters had been missing, they were angry with the people of
Limhi, for they thought it was the people of Limhi.

Mosiah 20:7
 7 Therefore they sent their armies forth; yea, even the king
himself went before his people; and they went up to the land of
Nephi to destroy the people of Limhi.

Mosiah 20:8
 8 And now Limhi had discovered them from the tower, even all
their preparations for war did he discover; therefore he gathered
his people together, and laid wait for them in the fields and in
the forests.

Mosiah 20:9
 9 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had come up, that
the people of Limhi began to fall upon them from their waiting
places, and began to slay them.

Mosiah 20:10
 10 And it came to pass that the battle became exceedingly sore,
for they fought like lions for their prey.

Mosiah 20:11
 11 And it came to pass that the people of Limhi began to drive
the Lamanites before them; yet they were not half so numerous as
the Lamanites. But they fought for their lives, and for their
wives, and for their children; therefore they exerted themselves
and like dragons did they fight.

Mosiah 20:12
 12 And it came to pass that they found the king of the Lamanites
among the number of their dead; yet he was not dead, having been
wounded and left upon the ground, so speedy was the flight of his
people.

Mosiah 20:13
 13 And they took him and bound up his wounds, and brought him
before Limhi, and said: Behold, here is the king of the
Lamanites; he having received a wound has fallen among their
dead, and they have left him; and behold, we have brought him
before you; and now let us slay him.

Mosiah 20:14
 14 But Limhi said unto them: Ye shall not slay him, but bring
him hither that I may see him. And they brought him. And Limhi
said unto him: What cause have ye to come up to war against my
people? Behold, my people have not broken the oath that I made
unto you; therefore, why should ye break the oath which ye made
unto my people?

Mosiah 20:15
 15 And now the king said: I have broken the oath because thy
people did carry away the daughters of my people; therefore, in
my anger I did cause my people to come up to war against thy
people.

Mosiah 20:16
 16 And now Limhi had heard nothing concerning this matter;
therefore he said: I will search among my people and whosoever
has done this thing shall perish. Therefore he caused a search
to be made among his people.

Mosiah 20:17
 17 Now when Gideon had heard these things, he being the king's
captain, he went forth and said unto the king: I pray thee
forbear, and do not search this people, and lay not this thing to
their charge.

Mosiah 20:18
 18 For do ye not remember the priests of thy father, whom this
people sought to destroy? And are they not in the wilderness?
And are not they the ones who have stolen the daughters of the
Lamanites?

Mosiah 20:19
 19 And now, behold, and tell the king of these things, that he
may tell his people that they may be pacified towards us; for
behold they are already preparing to come against us; and behold
also there are but few of us.

Mosiah 20:20
 20 And behold, they come with their numerous hosts; and except
the king doth pacify them towards us we must perish.

Mosiah 20:21
 21 For are not the words of Abinadi fulfilled, which he
prophesied against us--and all this because we would not hearken
unto the words of the Lord, and turn from our iniquities?

Mosiah 20:22
 22 And now let us pacify the king, and we fulfil the oath which
we have made unto him; for it is better that we should be in
bondage than that we should lose our lives; therefore, let us put
a stop to the shedding of so much blood.

Mosiah 20:23
 23 And now Limhi told the king all the things concerning his
father, and the priests that had fled into the wilderness, and
attributed the carrying away of their daughters to them.

Mosiah 20:24
 24 And it came to pass that the king was pacified towards his
people; and he said unto them: Let us go forth to meet my people,
without arms; and I swear unto you with an oath that my people
shall not slay thy people.

Mosiah 20:25
 25 And it came to pass that they followed the king, and went
forth without arms to meet the Lamanites. And it came to pass
that they did meet the Lamanites; and the king of the Lamanites
did bow himself down before them, and did plead in behalf of the
people of Limhi.

Mosiah 20:26
 26 And when the Lamanites saw the people of Limhi, that they
were without arms, they had compassion on them and were pacified
towards them, and returned with their king in peace to their own
land.

