Helaman 14
Chapter 14

Helaman 14:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Samuel, the Lamanite, did
prophesy a great many more things which cannot be written.

Helaman 14:2
 2 And behold, he said unto them: Behold, I give unto you a sign;
for five years more cometh, and behold, then cometh the Son of
God to redeem all those who shall believe on his name.

Helaman 14:3
 3 And behold, this will I give unto you for a sign at the time
of his coming; for behold, there shall be great lights in heaven,
insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shall be no
darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was
day.

Helaman 14:4
 4 Therefore, there shall be one day and a night and a day, as if
it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto
you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and
also of its setting; therefore they shall know of a surety that
there shall be two days and a night; nevertheless the night shall
not be darkened; and it shall be the night before he is born.

Helaman 14:5
 5 And behold, there shall a new star arise, such an one as ye
never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you.

Helaman 14:6
 6 And behold this is not all, there shall be many signs and
wonders in heaven.

Helaman 14:7
 7 And it shall come to pass that ye shall all be amazed, and
wonder, insomuch that ye shall fall to the earth.

Helaman 14:8
 8 And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall believe on the
Son of God, the same shall have everlasting life.

Helaman 14:9
 9 And behold, thus hath the Lord commanded me, by his angel,
that I should come and tell this thing unto you; yea, he hath
commanded that I should prophesy these things unto you; yea, he
hath said unto me: Cry unto this people, repent and prepare the
way of the Lord.

Helaman 14:10
 10 And now, because I am a Lamanite, and have spoken unto you
the words which the Lord hath commanded me, and because it was
hard against you, ye are angry with me and do seek to destroy me,
and have cast me out from among you.

Helaman 14:11
 11 And ye shall hear my words, for, for this intent have I come
up upon the walls of this city, that ye might hear and know of
the judgments of God which do await you because of your
iniquities, and also that ye might know the conditions of
repentance;

Helaman 14:12
 12 And also that ye might know of the coming of Jesus Christ,
the Son of God, the Father of heaven and of earth, the Creator of
all things from the beginning; and that ye might know of the
signs of his coming, to the intent that ye might believe on his
name.

Helaman 14:13
 13 And if ye believe on his name ye will repent of all your
sins, that thereby ye may have a remission of them through his
merits.

Helaman 14:14
 14 And behold, again, another sign I give unto you, yea, a sign
of his death.

Helaman 14:15
 15 For behold, he surely must die that salvation may come; yea,
it behooveth him and becometh expedient that he dieth, to bring
to pass the resurrection of the dead, that thereby men may be
brought into the presence of the Lord.

Helaman 14:16
 16 Yea, behold, this death bringeth to pass the resurrection,
and redeemeth all mankind from the first death--that spiritual
death; for all mankind, by the fall of Adam being cut off from
the presence of the Lord, are considered as dead, both as to
things temporal and to things spiritual.

Helaman 14:17
 17 But behold, the resurrection of Christ redeemeth mankind,
yea, even all mankind, and bringeth them back into the presence
of the Lord.

Helaman 14:18
 18 Yea, and it bringeth to pass the condition of repentance,
that whosoever repenteth the same is not hewn down and cast into
the fire; but whosoever repenteth not is hewn down and cast into
the fire; and there cometh upon them again a spiritual death,
yea, a second death, for they are cut off again as to things
pertaining to righteousness.

Helaman 14:19
 19 Therefore repent ye, repent ye, lest by knowing these things
and not doing them ye shall suffer yourselves to come under
condemnation, and ye are brought down unto this second death.

Helaman 14:20
 20 But behold, as I said unto you concerning another sign, a
sign of his death, behold, in that day that he shall suffer death
the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you;
and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon
the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer
death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall
rise again from the dead.

Helaman 14:21
 21 Yea, at the time that he shall yield up the ghost there shall
be thunderings and lightnings for the space of many hours, and
the earth shall shake and tremble; and the rocks which are upon
the face of this earth, which are both above the earth and
beneath, which ye know at this time are solid, or the more part
of it is one solid mass, shall be broken up;

Helaman 14:22
 22 Yea, they shall be rent in twain, and shall ever after be
found in seams and in cracks, and in broken fragments upon the
face of the whole earth, yea, both above the earth and beneath.

Helaman 14:23
 23 And behold, there shall be great tempests, and there shall be
many mountains laid low, like unto a valley, and there shall be
many places which are now called valleys which shall become
mountains, whose height is great.

Helaman 14:24
 24 And many highways shall be broken up, and many cities shall
become desolate.

Helaman 14:25
 25 And many graves shall be opened, and shall yield up many of
their dead; and many saints shall appear unto many.

Helaman 14:26
 26 And behold, thus hath the angel spoken unto me; for he said
unto me that there should be thunderings and lightnings for the
space of many hours.

Helaman 14:27
 27 And he said unto me that while the thunder and the lightning
lasted, and the tempest, that these things should be, and that
darkness should cover the face of the whole earth for the space
of three days.

Helaman 14:28
 28 And the angel said unto me that many shall see greater things
than these, to the intent that they might believe that these
signs and these wonders should come to pass upon all the face of
this land, to the intent that there should be no cause for
unbelief among the children of men--

Helaman 14:29
 29 And this to the intent that whosoever will believe might be
saved, and that whosoever will not believe, a righteous judgment
might come upon them; and also if they are condemned they bring
upon themselves their own condemnation.

Helaman 14:30
 30 And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever
perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity,
doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are free; ye are permitted
to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a
knowledge and he hath made you free.

Helaman 14:31
 31 He hath given unto you that ye might know good from evil, and
he hath given unto you that ye might choose life or death; and ye
can do good and be restored unto that which is good, or have that
which is good restored unto you; or ye can do evil, and have that
which is evil restored unto you.

