Alma 42
Chapter 42

Alma 42:1
 1 And now, my son, I perceive there is somewhat more which doth
worry your mind, which ye cannot understand--which is concerning
the justice of God in the punishment of the sinner; for ye do try
to suppose that it is injustice that the sinner should be
consigned to a state of misery.

Alma 42:2
 2 Now behold, my son, I will explain this thing unto thee. For
behold, after the Lord God sent our first parents forth from the
garden of Eden, to till the ground, from whence they were
taken--yea, he drew out the man, and he placed at the east end of
the garden of Eden, cherubim, and a flaming sword which turned
every way, to keep the tree of life--

Alma 42:3
 3 Now, we see that the man had become as God, knowing good and
evil; and lest he should put forth his hand, and take also of the
tree of life, and eat and live forever, the Lord God placed
cherubim and the flaming sword, that he should not partake of the
fruit--

Alma 42:4
 4 And thus we see, that there was a time granted unto man to
repent, yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God.

Alma 42:5
 5 For behold, if Adam had put forth his hand immediately, and
partaken of the tree of life, he would have lived forever,
according to the word of God, having no space for repentance;
yea, and also the word of God would have been void, and the great
plan of salvation would have been frustrated.

Alma 42:6
 6 But behold, it was appointed unto man to die--therefore, as
they were cut off from the tree of life they should be cut off
from the face of the earth--and man became lost forever, yea,
they became fallen man.

Alma 42:7
 7 And now, ye see by this that our first parents were cut off
both temporally and spiritually from the presence of the Lord;
and thus we see they became subjects to follow after their own
will.

Alma 42:8
 8 Now behold, it was not expedient that man should be reclaimed
from this temporal death, for that would destroy the great plan
of happiness.

Alma 42:9
 9 Therefore, as the soul could never die, and the fall had
brought upon all mankind a spiritual death as well as a temporal,
that is, they were cut off from the presence of the Lord, it was
expedient that mankind should be reclaimed from this spiritual
death.

Alma 42:10
 10 Therefore, as they had become carnal, sensual, and devilish,
by nature, this probationary state became a state for them to
prepare; it became a preparatory state.

Alma 42:11
 11 And now remember, my son, if it were not for the plan of
redemption, (laying it aside) as soon as they were dead their
souls were miserable, being cut off from the presence of the
Lord.

Alma 42:12
 12 And now, there was no means to reclaim men from this fallen
state, which man had brought upon himself because of his own
disobedience;

Alma 42:13
 13 Therefore, according to justice, the plan of redemption could
not be brought about, only on conditions of repentance of men in
this probationary state, yea, this preparatory state; for except
it were for these conditions, mercy could not take effect except
it should destroy the work of justice. Now the work of justice
could not be destroyed; if so, God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:14
 14 And thus we see that all mankind were fallen, and they were
in the grasp of justice; yea, the justice of God, which consigned
them forever to be cut off from his presence.

Alma 42:15
 15 And now, the plan of mercy could not be brought about except
an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for
the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to
appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just
God, and a merciful God also.

Alma 42:16
 16 Now, repentance could not come unto men except there were a
punishment, which also was eternal as the life of the soul should
be, affixed opposite to the plan of happiness, which was as
eternal also as the life of the soul.

Alma 42:17
 17 Now, how could a man repent except he should sin? How could
he sin if there was no law? How could there be a law save there
was a punishment?

Alma 42:18
 18 Now, there was a punishment affixed, and a just law given,
which brought remorse of conscience unto man.

Alma 42:19
 19 Now, if there was no law given--if a man murdered he should
die--would he be afraid he would die if he should murder?

Alma 42:20
 20 And also, if there was no law given against sin men would not
be afraid to sin.

Alma 42:21
 21 And if there was no law given, if men sinned what could
justice do, or mercy either, for they would have no claim upon
the creature?

Alma 42:22
 22 But there is a law given, and a punishment affixed, and a
repentance granted; which repentance mercy claimeth; otherwise,
justice claimeth the creature and executeth the law, and the law
inflicteth the punishment; if not so, the works of justice would
be destroyed, and God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:23
 23 But God ceaseth not to be God, and mercy claimeth the
penitent, and mercy cometh because of the atonement; and the
atonement bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead; and the
resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence of
God; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be judged
according to their works, according to the law and justice.

Alma 42:24
 24 For behold, justice exerciseth all his demands, and also
mercy claimeth all which is her own; and thus, none but the truly
penitent are saved.

Alma 42:25
 25 What, do ye suppose that mercy can rob justice? I say unto
you, Nay; not one whit. If so, God would cease to be God.

Alma 42:26
 26 And thus God bringeth about his great and eternal purposes,
which were prepared from the foundation of the world. And thus
cometh about the salvation and the redemption of men, and also
their destruction and misery.

Alma 42:27
 27 Therefore, O my son, whosoever will come may come and partake
of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come the
same is not compelled to come; but in the last day it shall be
restored unto him according to his deeds.

Alma 42:28
 28 If he has desired to do evil, and has not repented in his
days, behold, evil shall be done unto him, according to the
restoration of God.

Alma 42:29
 29 And now, my son, I desire that ye should let these things
trouble you no more, and only let your sins trouble you, with
that trouble which shall bring you down unto repentance.

Alma 42:30
 30 O my son, I desire that ye should deny the justice of God no
more. Do not endeavor to excuse yourself in the least point
because of your sins, by denying the justice of God; but do you
let the justice of God, and his mercy, and his long-suffering
have full sway in your heart; and let it bring you down to the
dust in humility.

Alma 42:31
 31 And now, O my son, ye are called of God to preach the word
unto this people. And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word
with truth and soberness, that thou mayest bring souls unto
repentance, that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon
them. And may God grant unto you even according to my words.
Amen.

