Mormon 6
Chapter 6

Mormon 6:1
 1 And now I finish my record concerning the destruction of my
people, the Nephites. And it came to pass that we did march
forth before the Lamanites.

Mormon 6:2
 2 And I, Mormon, wrote an epistle unto the king of the
Lamanites, and desired of him that he would grant unto us that we
might gather together our people unto the land of Cumorah, by a
hill which was called Cumorah, and there we could give them
battle.

Mormon 6:3
 3 And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites did grant
unto me the thing which I desired.

Mormon 6:4
 4 And it came to pass that we did march forth to the land of
Cumorah, and we did pitch our tents around about the hill
Cumorah; and it was in a land of many waters, rivers, and
fountains; and here we had hope to gain advantage over the
Lamanites.

Mormon 6:5
 5 And when three hundred and eighty and four years had passed
away, we had gathered in all the remainder of our people unto the
land of Cumorah.

Mormon 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that when we had gathered in all our
people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold I, Mormon, began to
be old; and knowing it to be the last struggle of my people, and
having been commanded of the Lord that I should not suffer the
records which had been handed down by our fathers, which were
sacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the
Lamanites would destroy them) therefore I made this record out of
the plates of Nephi, and hid up in the hill Cumorah all the
records which had been entrusted to me by the hand of the Lord,
save it were these few plates which I gave unto my son Moroni.

Mormon 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that my people, with their wives and their
children, did now behold the armies of the Lamanites marching
towards them; and with that awful fear of death which fills the
breasts of all the wicked, did they await to receive them.

Mormon 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that they came to battle against us, and
every soul was filled with terror because of the greatness of
their numbers.

Mormon 6:9
 9 And it came to pass that they did fall upon my people with the
sword, and with the bow, and with the arrow, and with the ax, and
with all manner of weapons of war.

Mormon 6:10
 10 And it came to pass that my men were hewn down, yea, even my
ten thousand who were with me, and I fell wounded in the midst;
and they passed by me that they did not put an end to my life.

Mormon 6:11
 11 And when they had gone through and hewn down all my people
save it were twenty and four of us, (among whom was my son
Moroni) and we having survived the dead of our people, did behold
on the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their camps,
from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand of my people
who were hewn down, being led in the front by me.

Mormon 6:12
 12 And we also beheld the ten thousand of my people who were led
by my son Moroni.

Mormon 6:13
 13 And behold, the ten thousand of Gidgiddonah had fallen, and
he also in the midst.

Mormon 6:14
 14 And Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had
fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen with his ten
thousand; and Jeneum had fallen with his ten thousand; and
Cumenihah, and Moronihah, and Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem,
and Josh, had fallen with their ten thousand each.

Mormon 6:15
 15 And it came to pass that there were ten more who did fall by
the sword, with their ten thousand each; yea, even all my people,
save it were those twenty and four who were with me, and also a
few who had escaped into the south countries, and a few who had
deserted over unto the Lamanites, had fallen; and their flesh,
and bones, and blood lay upon the face of the earth, being left
by the hands of those who slew them to molder upon the land, and
to crumble and to return to their mother earth.

Mormon 6:16
 16 And my soul was rent with anguish, because of the slain of my
people, and I cried:

Mormon 6:17
 17 O ye fair ones, how could ye have departed from the ways of
the Lord! O ye fair ones, how could ye have rejected that Jesus,
who stood with open arms to receive you!

Mormon 6:18
 18 Behold, if ye had not done this, ye would not have fallen.
But behold, ye are fallen, and I mourn your loss.

Mormon 6:19
 19 O ye fair sons and daughters, ye fathers and mothers, ye
husbands and wives, ye fair ones, how is it that ye could have
fallen!

Mormon 6:20
 20 But behold, ye are gone, and my sorrows cannot bring your
return.

Mormon 6:21
 21 And the day soon cometh that your mortal must put on
immortality, and these bodies which are now moldering in
corruption must soon become incorruptible bodies; and then ye
must stand before the judgment-seat of Christ to be judged
according to your works and if it so be that ye are righteous,
then are ye blessed with your fathers who have gone before you.

Mormon 6:22
 22 O that ye had repented before this great destruction had come
upon you. But behold, ye are gone, and the Father, yea, the
Eternal Father of heaven, knoweth your state; and he doeth with
you according to his justice and mercy.

