Moroni 10
Chapter 10

Moroni 10:1
 1 Now I, Moroni, write somewhat as seemeth me good; and I write
unto my brethren, the Lamanites; and I would that they should
know that more than four hundred and twenty years have passed
away since the sign was given of the coming of Christ.

Moroni 10:2
 2 And I seal up these records, after I have spoken a few words
by way of exhortation unto you.

Moroni 10:3
 3 Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these
things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye
would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children
of men, from the creation of Adam even down unto the time that ye
shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts.

Moroni 10:4
 4 And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you
that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ,
if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere
heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest
the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.

Moroni 10:5
 5 And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of
all things.

Moroni 10:6
 6 And whatsoever thing is good is just and true; wherefore,
nothing that is good denieth the Christ, but acknowledgeth that
he is.

Moroni 10:7
 7 And ye may know that he is, by the power of the Holy Ghost;
wherefore I would exhort you that ye deny not the power of God;
for he worketh by power, according to the faith of the children
of men, the same today and tomorrow, and forever.

Moroni 10:8
 8 And again, I exhort you, my brethren, that ye deny not the
gifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God.
And there are different ways that these gifts are administered;
but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given
by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men, to profit
them.

Moroni 10:9
 9 For behold, to one is given by the Spirit of God, that he may
teach the word of wisdom;

Moroni 10:10
 10 And to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by
the same Spirit;

Moroni 10:11
 11 And to another, exceedingly great faith; and to another, the
gifts of healing by the same Spirit;

Moroni 10:12
 12 And again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles;

Moroni 10:13
 13 And again, to another, that he may prophesy concerning all
things;

Moroni 10:14
 14 And again, to another, the beholding of angels and
ministering spirits;

Moroni 10:15
 15 And again, to another, all kinds of tongues;

Moroni 10:16
 16 And again, to another, the interpretation of languages and of
divers kinds of tongues.

Moroni 10:17
 17 And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they
come unto every man severally, according as he will.

Moroni 10:18
 18 And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember
that every good gift cometh of Christ.

Moroni 10:19
 19 And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember
that he is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and that all
these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spiritual, never
will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, only
according to the unbelief of the children of men.

Moroni 10:20
 20 Wherefore, there must be faith; and if there must be faith
there must also be hope; and if there must be hope there must
also be charity.

Moroni 10:21
 21 And except ye have charity ye can in nowise be saved in the
kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in the kingdom of God if
ye have not faith; neither can ye if ye have no hope.

Moroni 10:22
 22 And if ye have no hope ye must needs be in despair; and
despair cometh because of iniquity.

Moroni 10:23
 23 And Christ truly said unto our fathers: If ye have faith ye
can do all things which are expedient unto me.

Moroni 10:24
 24 And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth--that if the
day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away
among you, it shall be because of unbelief.

Moroni 10:25
 25 And wo be unto the children of men if this be the case; for
there shall be none that doeth good among you, no not one. For
if there be one among you that doeth good, he shall work by the
power and gifts of God.

Moroni 10:26
 26 And wo unto them who shall do these things away and die, for
they die in their sins, and they cannot be saved in the kingdom
of God; and I speak it according to the words of Christ; and I
lie not.

Moroni 10:27
 27 And I exhort you to remember these things; for the time
speedily cometh that ye shall know that I lie not, for ye shall
see me at the bar of God; and the Lord God will say unto you: Did
I not declare my words unto you, which were written by this man,
like as one crying from the dead, yea, even as one speaking out
of the dust?

Moroni 10:28
 28 I declare these things unto the fulfilling of the prophecies.
And behold, they shall proceed forth out of the mouth of the
everlasting God; and his word shall hiss forth from generation to
generation.

Moroni 10:29
 29 And God shall show unto you, that that which I have written
is true.

Moroni 10:30
 30 And again I would exhort you that ye would come unto Christ,
and lay hold upon every good gift, and touch not the evil gift,
nor the unclean thing.

Moroni 10:31
 31 And awake, and arise from the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and put
on thy beautiful garments, O daughter of Zion; and strengthen thy
stakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest no more
be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he
hath made unto thee, O house of Israel, may be fulfilled.

Moroni 10:32
 32 Yea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, and deny
yourselves of all ungodliness; and if ye shall deny yourselves of
all ungodliness and love God with all your might, mind and
strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace
ye may be perfect in Christ; and if by the grace of God ye are
perfect in Christ, ye can in nowise deny the power of God.

Moroni 10:33
 33 And again, if ye by the grace of God are perfect in Christ,
and deny not his power, then are ye sanctified in Christ by the
grace of God, through the shedding of the blood of Christ, which
is in the covenant of the Father unto the remission of your sins,
that ye become holy, without spot.

Moroni 10:34
 34 And now I bid unto all, farewell. I soon go to rest in the
paradise of God, until my spirit and body shall again reunite,
and I am brought forth triumphant through the air, to meet you
before the pleasing bar of the great Jehovah, the Eternal Judge
of both quick and dead. Amen.




